# 1. Respect the `title` Attribute

```html
<a mode="dark" type="expanded" name="politics" href="/politics" data-analytics="header_expanded-nav" title="visit the US Politics section" class="nav-linksstyles__Link-sc-1tike8v-0 nav-linksstyles__SectionLink-sc-1tike8v-4 bwVECJ">US Politics</a>
```

You’ve read the short intro, and the first thing you’re about to witness now are equally short chapters—you bought a short book for a short price tag. The way this will all work now is that I’ll make a statement (the heading here, aka the chapter title), provide some code, and make remarks about that code, and share sentiments you may also feel or disagree with (though it would be nicer if we both felt the same way). So let’s keep this short:

This snippet, taken from a U.S. news site, is interesting in many ways. And there are overt and covert lessons to be learned. An example for an overt lesson? It would probably be smart to drop `name=politics` (I’m hiding another introductory note in here: I may quote code in a less verbose fashion than each original has it), or to use an `id`. A covert lesson? `mode=dark` and `type=expanded` smell and need examination. On the sparse information we have we can’t tell right now. Another overt one? The class names are hell, probably coming from any school you want—most notably too chatty after already having been pushed through some tool chain.

The point here, however, is this: Don’t use [`title`s](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#the-title-attribute) that parrot what the link text says. Don’t even use `title` when they _almost_ say what the link text says. In fact, use the `title` attribute sparely—use it only then when context and contents do not provide sufficient cues to understand an element, _and_ once you balanced the need for `title` maintenance with the needs of your audience.

`title`s can be useful for users (UX 👍) but, relatively speaking, they are costly to add and maintain (DX 👎). Note “relatively speaking”: It’s easy to key in a few characters, but looking just at the few characters for a `title` misses that more are added in other cases and that it all has to be maintained. Be mindful. Respect the `title` attribute.

I> Invisible content, from my view, is a disaster. Meta descriptions, `alt` attributes, `title` information… even with support of the most advanced content management systems they’re a pain to keep track of and maintain, and the only thing that has kept this at bay is that respective resources are usually rather stable, that is, the image described “My first cup of coffee in 2002” is likely to only experience an update once it’s being kicked out altogether. Be careful around invisible content unless it hugely benefits users, as with `alt`. 

Before heading out, what’s the bare minimum for the sample code below?

```html
<a href=/politics>US Politics</a>
```

I> Much code that I’m showing in between, and all minimal code presented at the end of each chapter has been pruned of [optional markup](https://meiert.com/en/blog/optional-html/), like optional tags and quotes. Whether you adopt this practice for development or for production is entirely up to you and your needs, however omitting such optional code is my strong recommendation [at least for production code](https://meiert.com/en/blog/html-performance/).