# 10. Add Meaning, Prune Meaninglessness

```html
<div>
  <p><a class="largelink" href="https://www.example.com/ACME/" lang="en" dir="auto" translate="no">A Company Making Everything (ACME)</a></p>
  <p>Strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the World great again.</p>
</div>
```

(Links and text would have given it all away so I “neutralized” the sample.)

This code is from a technical organization. It’s talkative but doesn’t really say much: Some sort of section with two paragraphs, one of which includes a link (and is styled prominently), another that contains a one-liner; and we learn the link is “large” and written in English (like all of the page), that text directionality is “automatic,” and that the contents should not be translated.

The problems with all of this is that meaning is not conveyed that is there, and that other code here portrays meaning that is none.

The container, a meaningless `div` element, can be swapped by a slightly more appropriate, slightly more meaningful `section` element. (Really only slightly—`section` [doesn’t mean much, either](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/sections.html#the-section-element), but one would need to review respective site to determine what other [sectioning](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#sectioning-content-2) or [flow element](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#flow-content) was ideal.)

The first paragraph, and `largelink` suggests what can be seen on the live page, serves more of a heading, which would be preferable, for more—meaningful.

`largelink` is a terrible name because—yes, I’ll give you all of my preference for the “first paradigm” of development that separates concerns—you really don’t want to edit tons of HTML templates and documents once that large link has been redesigned to be small.

The language is English throughout the document and, on closer inspection (as nothing here is about blaming I again ask to take my word), needs no specifying on anchors buried somewhere deep in the page.

Directionality has likewise no need for being defined here, especially not as `auto`.

`translate=no` is of no interest to the user, other than that it slows them down for it must be loaded together with the other three rather random occurrences on the page that increase overall payload.

The rest is okay.

The way to approach markup—per the school I’ve been taught and that I’ve been teaching—is to write the most minimal meaningful markup possible, and to be really selective about anything else that’s not strictly necessary.

That leads us to the concluding minimal sample suggestion (don’t ask about the necessary heading level here):

```html
<section>
  <h1><a href=/ACME/>A Company Making Everything (ACME)</a></h1>
  <p>Strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the World great again.
</section>
```

If it does meet all the organization’s needs this code does look gentler, doesn’t it? Then you and I have just upgraded that HTML.