# 2. Stop Escaping `&`

…unless you want to make a character reference visible. Now:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:100,300,400,500,700&amp;lang=en">
```

As with our first case, this example is interesting, too, for there’s more to improve. A language (note `lang=en`) may not need to be set for a font, one might add back the protocol so to force a connection on `https`, and one could omit the quotes around `stylesheet`; and, for Google providing the fonts, they could offer a less convenient (for them) but stronger solution (for others) when it comes to privacy by [making it easier to self-host the fonts](https://google-webfonts-helper.herokuapp.com/fonts), so that fonts.googleapis.com cannot collect any traffic information.

Our focus is on the `&amp;` though, used to escape the ampersand in the URL. Yet `&`, in essence, does rarely have to be escaped anymore. You can pretty much stop worrying about escaping `&`.

When does `&amp;` need to be escaped? Pretty much only in two cases:

1. To show a character reference (the more popular use case). That is, if in the copy of an HTML document you talk about, say, using no-break spaces, you would not type in `&nbsp;`, for that would yield a space almost indistinguishable from a regular space (` `), but `&amp;nbsp;`. Here you would escape the ampersand.

2. Another case is to avoid what the specification calls [“ambiguous ampersands.”](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/syntax.html#syntax-ambiguous-ampersand) These are, in other words, character sequences of an ampersand, some alphanumeric characters, and a semicolon that could be confused with a sequence that maps to a particular character.

Since it’s rare to run into the second scenario, the only situation to really watch out for is the one in which one writes about character references. Which happens to be a scenario that takes care of itself, for you wouldn’t have a chance to make a character reference visible if you _didn’t_ escape the leading ampersand. Therefore, in practice, you can stop escaping `&`.

How can the sample code also work? The suspected non-use for `lang=en` makes us drop the ampersand altogether:

```html
<link rel=stylesheet href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:100,300,400,500,700">
```

If `lang` stuck around:

```html
<link rel=stylesheet href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:100,300,400,500,700&lang=en">
```