# 8. Be Clear About Attribute Functions

```html
<h1 id="firstHeading" class="firstHeading" lang="en">Main Page</h1>
```

This sample is another fairly short one, taken from a fairly popular, fairly huge information site. Now, you and I both will and perhaps should assume good reasons and intentions, but on the surface more than just one thing feels off: Is this a useful heading title? (Is it indeed the first-level heading?) Why does it need the language assigned when it is (and it is) on an all-English page? And what’s up with this duplication of `class` and `id`?

We won’t know reasons and intentions without talking to developers and stakeholders (and we won’t talk to them). And so I’ve picked this example to focus on the duplicate class and ID issue. This is, then, something to be mindful of, for it suggests that one wasn’t entirely clear about what role which attribute plays, on the site. (Again, we assume good reasons and just don’t know what’s going on precisely.)

Generally speaking, this duplication is not ideal. It doesn’t only make it less clear what role each attribute plays, it also means more code. Is the `id` just for reference, for naming or identification, for styling, or for scripting manipulation? Is the `class` serving naming or identification, styling, or scripting? And this is the confusing piece, then—both attribute-value combinations overlap in what they can be used for. It seems conceivable that the `id` was established for reference (to jump right to the heading) and naming, and the `class` for styling, and that the coding guidelines even documented that; and also that developers on the site get confused about this.

Conceivable.

Avoiding such _de facto_ duplication can save code and make markup more understandable.

The minimal markup scenario may yield the following:

```html
<h1>Main Page</h1>
```

Or, to go by our field’s class-rich “second paradigm”:

```html
<h1 class=firstHeading>Main Page</h1>
```

Something like that, if you’re happy naming classes this way.