# 9. Question Your Markup

```
156,134, 125,478, 23,152  
```

Three numbers—if I would display the code it represents the book would be thrice as long and you’d feel cheated. I want you to feel good. Therefore, three numbers must do.

These numbers come from a Chinese website, its homepage, and only the homepage—the main HTML document—, and mean the following:

* 156,134 characters overall, of which
* 125,478 characters are JavaScript, and
* 23,152 characters are CSS.

In ratios, of respective page, 80,37% of the page consists of JavaScript, and 14,83% of CSS. All inline.

If this happens, something goes wrong.

Either all that—considerable!—JavaScript and CSS is being reused somewhere and should therefore _not_ be inlined, for the performance benefits inlining brings are outweighed by the caching, maintainability, and tooling benefits making them available separately brings.

Or, that JavaScript and CSS is way too much, and the development itself went terribly wrong. (The page in question is rather simple and I can rule out that all that code was, indeed, necessary. Take my word.)

But what is this here, why would I write about HTML and then throw such abstract numbers around? Let’s try a different way of describing the problem:

You write 7,504 characters of HTML and copy (and _many_ spaces in this case).

Then you write 23,152 characters of CSS—4 times as much as you wrote HTML, and _compressed_ this time—to style that markup (and _only_ that markup, for you inline it because you don’t reuse it).

And then you write _125,478_ characters of JavaScript—no spaces here, either, that is, all minified, then amounting to _17_ times more code than you wrote HTML.

Got it?

But I was lazy, then. I only looked at one site to compare, one of my own, and there I found 19,520 characters HTML and copy and tabs, instead of spaces; and then 8,439 characters CSS _for the whole_ website. You already see where this is going:

There _is_ something off when you write a one-pager and your HTML/copy to CSS/script ratio is 1:20. And then a standard website with shared assets clocks in at 2:1. The ratio flipped. One entire dimension smaller. The sirens are deafening.

Think, again, and question your work.